README.md, before:

# Algebra-of-Boxes-code

## Associated Manuscript
This is the GitHub page associated to the manuscript "`Algebra of Nonlocal Boxes and Collapse of Communication Complexity`" from [Pierre Botteron](https://pierre-botteron.github.io/), [Anne Broadbent](https://mysite.science.uottawa.ca/abroadbe/), [Réda Chhaibi](https://www.math.univ-toulouse.fr/~rchhaibi/), [Ion Nechita](https://ion.nechita.net/about/), and [Clément Pellegrini](https://www.math.univ-toulouse.fr/~pellegri/).

## Content

The repository is structured as follows. We only describe the most important files for a new user.

```bash
./

|-- nonlocal-boxes/: Core of package. 
|  |-- `__init__.py`: Init file.
|  |-- `evaluate.py`: Package of the function to evaluate, using PyTorch.
|  |-- `utils.py`: Package of the constants, using PyTorch.
|-- ipynb/: Contains Python notebooks which demonstrate how the code works.
|-- `README.md`: This file.

```
#### Details of the Python notebooks (folder `ipynb/`):

| File name | Description | Link with the manuscript |
| :------------ |:---------------| :-----|
| `Draw-new-collapsing-boxes.ipynb` | Drawing new collapsing boxes using Algorithm 4. | Figure 10 |
| `Draw-Orbit.ipynb` | Drawing the Orbit of a box P in some slices | Figures 7 and 8, Appendix A |
| `Multiplication-Table.ipynb` | Computing the multiplication table given some boxes and a wiring. | Figure 4, Eq. (18), Appendix C |
| `Histograms.ipynb` | Drawing the histograms of the ouputs of Algorithms 2 and 3 | Figure 9 |

## Installation of the Package

1. Create new virtual environment `.venv_boxes`:

```bash
$ python3 -m venv .venv_boxes
```

2. If needed:

```bash
$ sudo apt install python3-venv
```

3. Activate virtual environment:

```bash
$ source .venv_boxes/bin/activate
```

4. Upgrade pip, wheel and setuptools 

```bash
$ pip install --upgrade pip
$ pip install --upgrade setuptools
$ pip install wheel
```

5. Install the `non_local_boxes` package.

```bash
$ python setup.py develop
```

6. (Optional) In order to use Jupyter with this virtual environment .venv_boxes (see https://janakiev.com/blog/jupyter-virtual-envs/ for details):

```bash
$ pip install ipykernel
$ python -m ipykernel install --user --name=.venv_boxes
```

## Configuration
There is a variable `nb_columns` in `non_local_boxes/evaluate.py` that can be set depending on the algo that is running: 
- for optimisation codes, set it to a large number, e.g. 1000; 
- for evaluation codes, set it to 1.
The bigger that number is, the more precise is the optimisation but the longer is the run time.

## Credits
Later.

Commit message:

Adding Coordinates_extremal_NS_boxes.ipynb

README.md, after:

# Algebra-of-Boxes-code

## Associated Manuscript
This is the GitHub page associated to the manuscript "`Algebra of Nonlocal Boxes and Collapse of Communication Complexity`" from [Pierre Botteron](https://pierre-botteron.github.io/), [Anne Broadbent](https://mysite.science.uottawa.ca/abroadbe/), [Réda Chhaibi](https://www.math.univ-toulouse.fr/~rchhaibi/), [Ion Nechita](https://ion.nechita.net/about/), and [Clément Pellegrini](https://www.math.univ-toulouse.fr/~pellegri/).

## Content

The repository is structured as follows. We only describe the most important files for a new user.

```bash
./

|-- nonlocal-boxes/: Core of package. 
|  |-- `__init__.py`: Init file.
|  |-- `evaluate.py`: Package of the function to evaluate, using PyTorch.
|  |-- `utils.py`: Package of the constants, using PyTorch.
|-- ipynb/: Contains Python notebooks which demonstrate how the code works.
|-- `README.md`: This file.

```
#### Details of the Python notebooks (folder `ipynb/`):

| File name | Description | Link with the manuscript |
| :------------ |:---------------| :-----|
| `Draw-new-collapsing-boxes.ipynb` | Drawing new collapsing boxes using Algorithm 4. | Figure 10 |
| `Draw-Orbit.ipynb` | Drawing the Orbit of a box P in some slices. | Figures 7 and 8, Appendix A |
| `Multiplication-Table.ipynb` | Computing the multiplication table given some boxes and a wiring. | Figure 4, Eq. (18), Appendix C |
| `Histograms.ipynb` | Drawing the histograms of the ouputs of Algorithms 2 and 3. | Figure 9 |
| `Coordinates_extremal_NS_boxes.ipynb` | Drawing the 24 extremal boxes of $\mathcal{N\!S}$ in terms of $2$ games. | Figures 11 and 8 |

## Installation of the Package

1. Create new virtual environment `.venv_boxes`:

```bash
$ python3 -m venv .venv_boxes
```

2. If needed:

```bash
$ sudo apt install python3-venv
```

3. Activate virtual environment:

```bash
$ source .venv_boxes/bin/activate
```

4. Upgrade pip, wheel and setuptools 

```bash
$ pip install --upgrade pip
$ pip install --upgrade setuptools
$ pip install wheel
```

5. Install the `non_local_boxes` package.

```bash
$ python setup.py develop
```

6. (Optional) In order to use Jupyter with this virtual environment .venv_boxes (see https://janakiev.com/blog/jupyter-virtual-envs/ for details):

```bash
$ pip install ipykernel
$ python -m ipykernel install --user --name=.venv_boxes
```

## Configuration
There is a variable `nb_columns` in `non_local_boxes/evaluate.py` that can be set depending on the algo that is running: 
- for optimisation codes, set it to a large number, e.g. 1000; 
- for evaluation codes, set it to 1.
The bigger that number is, the more precise is the optimisation but the longer is the run time.

## Credits
Later.
